# My Duka Backend

## Overview
My Duka is an e-commerce platform that allows users to browse and purchase products online. This repository contains the backend code for My Duka, built using FastAPI and SQLAlchemy.

## Features
- RESTful API for product management, user authentication, and order processing.
- Integration with PostgreSQL for data storage.
- Support for asynchronous database queries using `asyncpg`.
- User authentication via JWT tokens.

## Technologies Used
- **FastAPI**: For building the web API.
- **SQLAlchemy**: For database ORM.
- **PostgreSQL**: Relational database for storing product and user data.
- **Pydantic**: For data validation and settings management.
- **Uvicorn**: ASGI server for serving the FastAPI application.
- **Databases**: Async database support for SQLAlchemy.

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8 or higher
- PostgreSQL database

### Steps to Install

1. **Clone the Repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Tonykanyi/My-duka-e-commerce-backend
   cd my-duka-backend

2. Create a Virtual Environment

python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`

3. Install Required Packages

pip install -r requirements.txt

4. Set Up Database

Create a PostgreSQL database for the application.
Update the database connection settings in the database.py file.

5. Run the Application

uvicorn main:app --reload
Your application should now be running at http://127.0.0.1:8000.

API Documentation
You can access the API documentation automatically generated by FastAPI at http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs.

Usage
Authentication: Use JWT tokens for user authentication.
Endpoints: Refer to the API documentation for detailed information about available endpoints and their usage.
Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please open an issue or submit a pull request.

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

